This letter is addressed to young adults.

I enjoy reflecting on Gilbert Harman's thought experiment of the brain in a vat. Hypothetically, it should be possible to sustain someone's brain in a container and feed it electrical signals that mimic real sensory inputs and experiences. A racing heart at seeing your loved ones. The calming sensation of a warm cat purring on your lap. The stress during a high-stakes meeting and the release of tension afterwards. There are interesting and nuanced discussions surrounding this thought experiment that I don't understand and won't get into. I just enjoy being literal with the starting point: our brains are already in skull-shaped vats, filled with cerebrospinal fluid, receiving nothing but electrical and chemical signals from various sensory devices spread throughout our bodies. Every action we make consists of electrical signals discharged in the opposite direction, from the vat to vast numbers of myosin motors, which in turn effect changes in the putative outside world. All my brain has ever really known is a life in this vat, and it is to this vat that I share some thoughts.

As I grow older, the more I want to tell the young that things will be okay. Not with dismissiveness but with understanding. Not because I think they need pity, but because I believe in them so much. It can be hard to wake up each and every day to the same harsh world that doesn't care what you do. Still, happiness is a fundamental right. No one is born deserving the life I grew up with -- its mix of pain, confusion, and sorrow. No one deserves that. That's not to say I want people to think life is easy. Life is hard. Of course it is. Every moment of existence is a protest against entropy. And everyone else is fighting against the same cosmic law. It's hard to keep anyone else in mind with that kind of struggle. Maybe I am just unbelievably, ridiculously lucky. But I've found that putting aside my ego and insecurities for the sake of listening carefully to things I don't want to hear has been life-changing. I'll never claim to have answers about anything. But there's something to the life I've chosen that is worth thinking about (to be clear, I don't mean my academic career. Rather, I mean my choice to make sense of the world through ***listening and questioning***).

Everything I've ever done has been punctuated with a sadness that's difficult to describe. My existence has been painful. For nearly thirty years, I believed that I didn't deserve to live. I believed that my mother left me because I was a bad son. I believed that my dad's psychological brutality was justified because I was just that awful of a person. It wasn't until I was 36 that I'd realize that my ever-present suicidal ideation was not normal. But it's okay. Sometimes we're dealt terrible cards. It's up to each and every one of us to find it in us to keep taking that next step. One after the other. Of course, the future and whatever comes next is important, and it's good to be aware of things like that. But just for that next step, it's okay to forget. It's okay to put aside those anxieties about life and living. You already know they will come your way. Everyone and everything reminds you of the terrible things to come. So, take that next step with the patience and certainty of a better life to come. YOU believe in your abilities, so what's to stop you? You might get hurt? You might hurt someone else? You might die? That's just called living. And for as long as you are alive, just do your best. It might not feel like it, but it is. Have a little more faith in yourself. 

J. Cole has some good thoughts but I disagree with this portion of his lyrics in cLOUDs:

> Before long, all the songs the whole world sings<br />
> Will be generated by latest of AI regimes<br />
> As all of our favorite artists erased by it scream<br />
> From the wayside, "Ayy, whatever happened to human beings?"

It's okay to have a little more faith in humanity. We refuse to be silenced to the very last person. Just look at our history for proof. If that's too abstract, just look at modern geopolitics and how it affects individuals. If that's still too abstract, just look at your neighbors. Your friends. Your community. There were and are absolutely times of deep unrest and economic hardship, but even in death, humanity is invincible.

It's impossible to underestimate the things you can endure. It's easy to *think* you're incapable of doing this or that. The hard part is trying it anyway. You will never know your full potential unless you try. And yeah, you will fail. A lot. Fucking believe me, I've been there. But it's better to fail now a hundred different times, each more embarrassing than the last, than to wonder ten years from now what it would have been like to try just one thing. The more often you're willing to stomach failure and face the music, the more the world will make sense.

I am reminded of the great Socrates' words, "No man has the right to be an amateur in the matter of physical training. It is a shame for a man to grow old without seeing the beauty and strength of which his body is capable."

The needs of ancient Greece were different. Men were expected to be strong and ready to fight in war. Today, the same sentiment applies in a different context. Of course, man or woman, you can and should develop your physical fitness the best that you can. But what's to keep you from exploring other avenues to the best of your ability? Why not read a book you normally wouldn't consider? Why not learn mathematical proofs? Why not paint? It would be a shame for anyone to grow old without seeing the beauty and strength of which their *mind* is capable.

Trying new things doesn't even have to be an excessively painful or dramatic experience (although, by all means, if you prefer excess, then go for it). It can be as simple as engaging in online conversation with people you'd never imagine talking to. It could be following a new streamer and saying "hello" in chat. It could be watching a YouTube video on a topic you've never thought about. It could be going to a new coffee shop. It could be making small talk with a stranger while waiting in line. These things matter. Each small step outside your comfort zone is a giant step towards growth. Don't mind what others may or may not think about how trivial or silly your anxiety might seem. They've just had different experiences and don't have the time to understand your story. But *you* know who you are. *You* know your hangups, and what makes you anxious. It's okay to listen to yourself more.

I'm now experiencing my greatest period of growth, but it's not just because I've cut contact with my dad. Cutting off my dad on its own was never the goal. But it had to be done to give me room to be wrong on my terms. Now, I can make as many embarrassing mistakes as I want, and I only need to answer to myself. I don't know why, but I just need to do this without my dad being there. It's as if I need to know what it's like to be wrong without his twisted funhouse mirror interpretation covering every possible direction. Sometimes I'm wrong, and everything turns out just fine. Actually, I'm ridiculously wrong very often, and things always turn out fine, even if there are some shaky moments in the short term. I just don't see any other way to learn.

The fear of mistakes acts like shackles. If you want to control someone, that's what you do. Focus on mistakes. Make them specific. Be careful with your wording so you always have plausible deniability ("I was only trying to be helpful!" "It's because I love you so much I can't help that I get angry"). Keep changing the specifics of the criticism so they can never quite pin down what you're being critical about. Sow and foster that paranoia to make them think they're never quite understanding your needs. Keep showing a sympathetic face so that they give you the benefit of the doubt. Get unpredictably angry at random things to feed the confusion. Blame the anger on your past ("My life was much worse than yours. You have it so much better!"). Even better, blame the anger on your victim. THEY are the ones that messed up. THEY are the ones responsible for your hurt AND theirs. Make sure they know that. Make sure they don't forget their mistakes. Warn them that it better not happen again or else...

But with shackles come the prospect of freedom.

> "They did what human beings looking for freedom, throughout history, have often done. They left."<br />
>  - Isabel Wilkerson, *The Warmth of Other Suns*

Humanity, more than ever, needs more thoughtful, inquisitive, diligent minds. And please, for one moment, consider that I really am speaking to you directly. I don't need to know who you are to know your potential. Because if you are reading these words, it means you are human, and if you are human, it means your potential is much greater than the world would make you believe.

And so concludes my letter to you, dear reader.
